Driver drowsiness detection is a car safety technology which prevents accidents when the driver is getting drowsy. Various studies have suggested that around 20% of all road accidents are fatigue-related, up to 50% on certain roads. Driver fatigue is a significant factor in a large number of vehicle accidents. Recent statistics estimate that annually 1,200 deaths and 76,000 injuries can be attributed to fatigue related crashes. The development of technologies for detecting or preventing drowsiness at the wheel is a major challenge in the field of accident avoidance systems. Because of the hazard that drowsiness presents on the road, methods need to be developed for counteracting its affects. Driver inattention might be the result of a lack of alertness when driving due to driver drowsiness and distraction. Driver distraction occurs when an object or event draws a person’s attention away from the driving task. Unlike driver distraction, driver drowsiness involves no triggering event but, instead, is characterized by a progressive withdrawal of attention from the road and traffic demands. Both driver drowsiness and distraction, however, might have the same effects, i.e., decreased driving performance, longer reaction time, and an increased risk of crash involvement. shows the block diagram of overall system. Based on Acquisition of video from the camera that is in front of driver perform real-time processing of an incoming video stream in order to infer the driver’s level of fatigue if the drowsiness is Estimated then it will give the alert by sensing the eyes. 
